---
layout: post
title: My Review of the Best Books I Read in 2016
---

I took a challenge of reading [20 books in 2016](https://www.goodreads.com/user/year_in_books/2016/24629386) of which I successfully
completed 13 books. I mostly prefer non-fiction because they focus more on how the real world works and
give me most out of the time I invest in them.

From creative process at Pixar to the life of real world wizard - Elon Musk, I learned a lot
from them. Below is the short review of books I like the most.

### [Man's Search for Meaning](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4069.Man_s_Search_for_Meaning) -By Viktor E. Frankl

> "Everything can be taken from a man but one thing: the last
of the human freedoms--to choose one's attitude in any given
set of circumstances, to choose one's own way." -Frankl

This book discusses Frankl's experiences in Auschwitz and other
concentration camps as well as his experiences afterward, with
an eye toward figuring out the meaning of life. Despite what
seems a dismal topic, this is a optimistic book that left me
feeling satisfied and joyful. Frankl believes that life can
have meaning at all times and under all circumstances, and he
makes a convincing argument. I plan to recommend this book to
my friends and to read it again

### [The Hard Thing About Hard Things: Building a Business When There Are No Easy Answers](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18176747-the-hard-thing-about-hard-things) By Ben Horowitz

I just loved this book and will like to recommend it
to anyone who has hunch to start a company (just to be aware
of the fact that how hard it is) or even a part of a startup
company as it really helps you to understand the never lasting
 demanding nature of startups.

The problem with other available books on same topic is,
 they are written by authors who have not the first hand
 experience of starting a company from scratch and sailing it
 to the very end, successfully, the people who have never managed
 even a fruit stand in their life. Some of them try to sell you
 some formulas, shortcuts on starting a company (there is no such thing
 like that) while some of them clearly don't have any idea what
 are they talking about and end up sounding like a fairy tale with rainbows and sunshine.


I am not saying all of them are bad (peace!!) but when someone
like Ben Horowitz who just didn't create a company from scratch
but sail it through worst economic recession, specially for an
internet based company i.e dot-com bubble burst to the very
end(selling it to HP), writes a book on the same topic it clearly
blows out everything else out of the water.
What I like the most about this book is it's detailed nature,
Ben just doesn't only talk about why some strategy is bad for you
 company but also gives you an example (a real one) and then goes
  further and talks about what you should be doing instead i.e the
   right strategy.

   Following is some excerpts from book which I find worth mentioning.

   > "Perhaps the most important thing that I learned as an entrepreneur was to focus on what I needed to get right and stop worrying about all the things that I did wrong or might do wrong"

> "By far the most difficult skill that I learned as CEO was the ability to manage my own psychology. Organisational design, process design, metrics, hiring and firing were all relatively straightforward skills to master compared with keeping my mind in check.


> "It's like the fight club of management. The first rule of the CEO psychological meltdown is don't talk about the psychological meltdown"

> "Great CEOs face the pain. They deal with the sleepless nights, the cold sweats, and what my friend Alfred Chuang calls "the torture". Whenever I meet a successful CEO, I ask them how they did it.Mediocre CEOs point to their brilliant strategic moves or their intuitive business sense or a variety of other self-congratulatory explanations. The great CEOs tend to be remarkably consistent in their answers. They all say, 'I didn't quit'.

> "Every time you make the hard, correct decision you become a bit more courageous and every time you make the easy, wrong decision you become a bit more cowardly. If you are a CEO, these choices will lead to a courageous or cowardly company"

> "Hard things are hard because there are no easy answers or recipes. They are hard because your emotions are at odds with your logic. They are hard because you cannot ask for help without showing weakness"

> " 'Life is struggle.' I believe that within that quote lies the most important lesson in entrepreneurship: Embrace the struggle."


### [Creativity, Inc.: Overcoming the Unseen Forces That Stand in the Way of True Inspiration](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18077903-creativity-inc) By Ed Catmull, Amy Wallace

 I am a Pixar fan to my core and this book only reinforced my
 connection. Their films are the outcome of a beautiful
 collaboration among a diverse group of talented individuals.
 Ed's compilation of the ups and downs of Pixar shows the power
 of heeding to principles not focused on profits,
 but on daring to do the best, most creative work you can.
 It is so crucial to create an environment where failure is not
 just acceptable, but expected when daring to do something hard
 and worth doing. I am inspired and enlightened by their
 learning and commitment to each other. If I were to start my
 own company, this would be the handbook.

 The bonus was hearing his experience working
Steve Jobs, and gratifying to know that Ed, Steve and John
Lasseter all grew as leaders in the time the took Pixar
from good to great

### [Elon Musk: Inventing the Future](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22543496-elon-musk) By Ashlee Vance

Being an Elon Musk fanboy, I have watched countless interviews
and read a lot about him over the web. This book is an yet
another quest in knowing about musk on an even more deeper level.
Ashlee Vance has done a fantastic job of getting the reader
absorbed into every intricate details about Elon. Moreover,
it din't actually feel like reading a book .
But, like sitting intrigued for long hours listening to a
close friend of Elon speak about him.

### [The Power of Habit: Why We Do What We Do in Life and Business](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12609433-the-power-of-habit) By Charles Duhigg

It's a great book and some of the facts and stories are really
great and cool enough to be part of a discussion or things
you wana talk about while you are on a date (nerd alert).
 The book is really impressive especially the habits of
 individuals section of the book inspires and motivates
 me a lot to follow the wonderful statements given in the
 book how to work with habit loop using cue routine reward
 pattern to create new and change existing habits to be
 satisfied in whatever habits that we are involved.


The thing that I didn't like about this book is the authors's writing stile,
the way he stretches the story, keeps fixating on same
fact even after making the point and starts another story
in middle of one. And this is why I left reading it after
first section (which is really interesting).
The better strategy to read this book, without being bored
would be to read the first section and then select the
section you wana read about by going through contents.

### [The $100 Startup: Reinvent the Way You Make a Living, Do What You Love, and Create a New Future](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12605157-the-100-startup) By Chris Guillebeau
When we hear word entrepreneurship, name of people like Bill Gates
Mark Zuckerberg, Elon Musk and their multi billion ventures
come in mind at the same time. <br/>
However, there is also example of people who didn't need a great idea, venture capital or even a detailed plan, they
just went on to solve their own problem and by doing this they
found their own business to support their life.

In this book, author Chris Guillebeau has collected some case studies
on those very people and their business.

In the words of Chris Guillebeau himself, "It's a Blueprint, Not a Vague Series of Ideas".
This book offers you the blueprint to kickstart a microbusiness, showing you to get from Point A to Point B. If you're trying to look for business ideas, or even ideas to improve your business, this may not be the best book to pick up.

On the other hand, if you're looking for a guide on starting a microbusiness, I believe this is a great guide that will serve you well.

Another thing I like about this book is how much it talks about value (helping others).
Keep in mind that the goal of a business is profit. To reach profitability? Consider how much value you're adding to other people's life.
It's my personal opinion that a lot of business today are so profit-oriented they forgot about the value they are providing to customers.
